# APCS Final Project
THIS DOCUMENT IS REQUIRED
## Group Info
Group Name: Gas Sims
Group members: Natalie Keung, Crystal Yang
## Overview
This is an ideal gas simulation remodeled from a PhET simulation. Many factors like temperature, pressure, volume, and number of moles affect how the particles behave according to the ideal gas law PV = nRT, where R is a constant. The particles will collide with the wall as well as with each other at different velocities. The particles and the wall are assumed to be smooth, rigid, and 100% elastic due to the ideal gas law neglecting intermolecular forces as well as loss of energy between collisions. Gravity is ignored and kinetic energy and momentum is conserved. The pressure of the system, P = F/A, will be determined by summing the impulses carried with each collision against the wall and dividing it by the total surface area ofthe container. Hence its definition, temperature will be equal to the average kinetic energy of all the particles in the system. Volume will be equal to the size of the container minus the total volume of the particles, since the ideal gas law assumes the volume of the particles is negligible. Users will be able to change these different factors and see the change in gas behavior visually. There is also a menu to keep specific factors constant, so users can see how other factors will change to accommodate that change.

## Instructions
- To start the simulation, press the arrow keys under the "Particles" interface to add and remove different kinds of particles. This will spawn gas particles into the container and numbers will start changing. 
- To change the volume, there is a handle on the right of the container. Dragging it left and right will change the width of the container. 
- To change the temperature, drag the slider on the bucket at the bottom.
- There is a gray lid at the top left of the container. Dragging it left and right will create a gap in the container that lets gas particles escape into the surroundings (container being the system). 
- To change what is being held constant, use the "Hold Constant" interface. The user will lose the ability to directly change the variables that are being held constant. When Volume or Temperature are selected, the pressure will change accordingly on its own. When Pressure(V) is selected, the volume will change to keep the pressure constant. Similarly, when Pressure(T) is selected, the temperature will change to keep the pressure constant. **However, since P is the measured result of variables in the environment, it is more difficult to keep it constant. Appropriate volumes and temperatures will be calculated using PV = nRT, but pressure will inevitably fluctuate relatively more than other variables.** Because of this fluctuation, buttons that hold pressure constant will be grayed out until the pressure is stable.
- There is a pause button, reset, and fast forward button. The first two are self-explanatory. The fast forward button only is enabled when the simulation is paused, and it lets users slow down the simulation and see it frame by frame.
- Have fun and learn about how volume, temperature, moles of particles, and pressure change how gas particles move according to the ideal gas law!!
